7 — Technical Screening Task
READ CAREFULLY — THIS IS THE PRIMARY BASIS FOR THE HIRING DECISION

What We Are Assessing
This exercise evaluates your ability to implement a precise engineering specification. We assess: correctness, specification compliance, code clarity and maintainability, engineering judgement, error handling, and documentation quality. A simple, well-structured solution will score higher than an over-engineered one.
Engineering Expectations
Keep the implementation intentionally straightforward. Separate parsing, policy evaluation and packet generation into logical components. Implement each policy rule as an individual named function where practical. Use only Python standard library, sqlite3 and PyYAML. Additional frameworks are unnecessary and will not improve your score.
How Your Submission Will Be Evaluated
Functional correctness (30%), Specification compliance (20%), Code quality and structure (20%), Robustness and error handling (10%), Documentation (10%), Engineering judgement (10%).
README Addition
Include setup instructions, execution instructions, outputs for all five tests, assumptions made, a brief explanation of design decisions, total time spent, and anything you deliberately simplified with your reasoning.
This task tests whether you can implement a structured pipeline from a specification, handle policy-gate logic, and produce clean, documented output. It is a simplified version of the actual Build Machine work. We value honest engineering judgement. If you make assumptions, encounter trade-offs, or intentionally simplify part of the implementation, explain your reasoning in the README.

The Task: Minimal Policy-Gated Packet Assembler
Build a Python command-line tool that assembles a "micro-packet" from a YAML input file, runs it through a set of policy rules, and either produces a signed output or rejects it with a structured error.

Step 1 — YAML Ingestion

Read the following YAML component definition and parse it into a Python data structure:
component:
  id: C-007
  name: Sentinel Request Gateway
  release: Release1-MVP
  owns: "Inbound request authentication, rate limiting, structured request logging"
  does_not_own: "Downstream service routing, payload transformation, response caching"
  fail_closed_behaviour: "If the gateway is unavailable, all inbound requests are rejected with HTTP 503. No requests are passed downstream without gateway validation."
  cr_authority: "BFS-SPEC-003 Section 4.2"
  zones: ["Zone-External"]
  acceptance_tests: ["AT-REQ-001", "AT-REQ-002", "AT-REQ-004"]

Step 2 — Packet Assembly

Assemble a packet from the parsed YAML. The packet must contain the following fields:
●	packet_id: Format BAP-YYYYMMDD-NNN where NNN comes from an atomic counter stored in a local SQLite database (not a random number, not a timestamp — an atomic sequence stored in SQLite that remains correct under concurrent execution and cannot generate duplicate packet IDs during overlapping executions).
●	component_id: from the YAML
●	component_name: from the YAML
●	release: from the YAML
●	owns: from the YAML
●	does_not_own: from the YAML
●	fail_closed_behaviour: from the YAML
●	cr_authority: from the YAML
●	zones: from the YAML
●	acceptance_tests: from the YAML
●	assembled_at: ISO 8601 UTC timestamp of packet assembly
●	assembler_version: hardcoded string "test-assembler-v0.1"

Step 3 — Policy Gate

Before the packet is accepted, it must pass ALL of the following policy rules. Implement these as explicit checks — not a schema validator, but named policy functions that each return pass/fail with a reason:
●	RULE-001: component_id must be present and match the format C-NNN (3-digit number).
●	RULE-002: release must be exactly "Release1-MVP" — no other value is accepted.
●	RULE-003: owns must be non-empty and must NOT contain the phrase "TBD" or "TODO".
●	RULE-004: does_not_own must be non-empty. The value "None" is NOT acceptable — every component must have explicit non-responsibilities.
●	RULE-005: fail_closed_behaviour must be non-empty and must contain the word "rejected" or "blocked" or "denied" or "refused" — a fail-closed behaviour that does not describe what happens to requests when the component fails is not a valid fail-closed behaviour.
●	RULE-006: acceptance_tests must be a non-empty list. A component with no acceptance tests cannot be assembled into a packet.
●	RULE-007: assembled_at must be a valid ISO 8601 UTC timestamp ending in Z.
If ANY rule fails: output a structured JSON error to stdout listing every failing rule with its reason. Exit with code 1. Do not produce a packet.
If ALL rules pass: output the assembled packet as JSON to stdout. Exit with code 0.

Step 4 — Signed Output

Produce a SHA-256 hash of the assembled packet JSON (deterministic — sort keys before hashing). Include this hash as a packet_hash field in the final output. This simulates the signing step — you do not need to integrate real Sigstore, just demonstrate that you understand why packet integrity hashing matters and implement it correctly.

Test Cases
Run your tool against the following inputs and include the output in your submission:
●	Test 1 — the C-007 YAML above. Expected: all rules pass, valid packet with hash produced.
●	Test 2 — same YAML but with does_not_own set to "None". Expected: RULE-004 fails, structured error output, exit code 1.
●	Test 3 — same YAML but with acceptance_tests set to an empty list []. Expected: RULE-006 fails.
●	Test 4 — same YAML but with release set to "Release2". Expected: RULE-002 fails.
●	Test 5 — run Test 1 twice in rapid succession. Show that packet_id NNN increments correctly (BAP-YYYYMMDD-001, then BAP-YYYYMMDD-002). This tests your atomic counter implementation.

Submission Requirements
●	Python 3.10 or later. Standard library plus sqlite3 (built-in) and PyYAML. No other dependencies needed.
●	Submit as a GitHub repository link. Include a README with setup instructions (should be trivial — just pip install pyyaml if needed), example outputs for all 5 test cases, and a brief note on: how long it took you, what you found straightforward, and what you found harder than expected.
●	Expected time for a strong candidate: 2–4 hours. If you find yourself at 6+ hours, stop and submit what you have with a note on where you ran out of time.
●	Self-reported time: tell us when you started and when you submitted. We cannot verify this but we use it as a calibration signal alongside the output quality.

Send your submission to Matt with subject line: "Engineer #1 Screening Task — [Your Name]"

We review submissions within 3 working days. Successful candidates proceed to a 45-minute technical discussion with BFS engineering authority.
